（英文で書くのが決まり）
No License

When you make a creative work (which includes code), the work is under exclusive copyright by default. 
Unless you include a license that specifies otherwise, nobody else can use, copy, distribute, 
or modify your work without being at risk of take-downs, shake-downs, or litigation. 
Once the work has other contributors (each a copyright holder), “nobody” starts including you.
Even in the absence of a license file, you may grant some rights in cases where you publish your source code 
to a site that requires accepting terms of service. 
For example, if you publish your source code in a public repository on GitHub, 
you have accepted the Terms of Service, by which you allow others to view and fork your repository. 
Others may not need your permission if limitations and exceptions to copyright apply to their particular situation. 
Neither site terms nor jurisdiction-specific copyright limitations are sufficient for the kinds of collaboration 
that people usually seek on a public code host, such as experimentation, modification, 
and sharing as fostered by an open source license.
You don’t have to do anything to not offer a license. You may however wish to add a copyright notice and statement 
that you are not offering any license in a prominent place (e.g., 
your project’s README) so that users don’t assume you made an oversight. 
If you’re going to accept others’ contributions to your non-licensed project, 
you may wish to explore with your lawyer adding a contributor agreement to your project 
so that you maintain copyright permission from contributors, even though you’re not granting the same.
Disallowing use of your code might not be what you intend by “no license.” 
An open-source license allows reuse of your code while retaining copyright. 
If your goal is to completely opt-out of copyright restrictions, try a public domain dedication.
For users
If you find software that doesn’t have a license, that generally means you have no permission 
from the creators of the software to use, modify, or share the software. 
Although a code host such as GitHub may allow you to view and fork the code, 
this does not imply that you are permitted to use, modify, or share the software for any purpose.
Your options:
Ask the maintainers nicely to add a license. Unless the software includes strong indications to the contrary, 
lack of a license is probably an oversight. If the software is hosted on a site like GitHub, 
open an issue requesting a license and include a link to this site, 
or if you’re bold and it’s fairly obvious what license is most appropriate, 
open a pull request to add a license.
Don’t use the software. Find or create an alternative that is under an open source license.
Negotiate a private license. Bring your lawyer.

----------------------------
プログラムのライセンスについて

ライセンスを明記されていない場合、
デフォルトで著作権法が適用され（上記のNo Licenseのように）、
ソフトウェアの複製、改変、（複製物または二次的著作物の）再頒布が認められません。


コンピュータプログラムの著作権について
（ソフトウェアの複製、改変について：日本の法律では）

著作者人格権は著作者の人格的価値を保護する権利や、
公表権は未発表の著作物を発表する権利や、
氏名表示権は著作物の原作品に著作者名を表示するかまたはしない権利や、
同一性保持権は著作者の意に反して著作物の題名や内容の変更，切除，
その他改変を受けない権利があるが、なかでもプログラムにおいて問題となるのが同一性保持権です。
しかし、
著作権法第２０条第２項第３号では
プログラムの特例として、
「特定の電子計算機において利用し得ないプログラムの著作物を当該電子計算機に利用し得るため」の改変と
「電子計算機においてより効果的に利用し得るため」の改変については同一性保持権の侵害にならない、
となっています。